README.md, before:

# iTunes Backup Explorer

iTunes Backup Explorer is a graphical open-source tool that can show, extract,
and replace files in iPhone and iPad backups.

It supports both **encrypted** and non-encrypted backups, 
currently from iOS 10.2 onwards.

Most programs that support encrypted backups are either limited trials 
or expensive. There are apparently only very few open-source projects 
that target this issue and none that are also useful for the average user.

![Program screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12913518/164055723-2d234fa8-922f-439d-974c-f9e7e560a438.png)

## Installation

- Open your terminal and type in `java -version`.
- If the command was not found or the version is below **11**, 
download and install Java for your operating system, e.g. from [here](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads).
- Download the jar file of the [latest release](https://github.com/MaxiHuHe04/iTunes-Backup-Explorer/releases/latest) of iTunes Backup Explorer.

**Windows**
- Simply double-click the downloaded file to start the program.
- From the command line: `java -jar JARFILE.jar`.
Replace `JARFILE.jar` with the name of the file you downloaded.

**macOS**
- `cd` to the download directory and type in `chmod +x JARFILE.jar`.
- You may need to enable Full Disk Access in System Preferences ->
  Security -> Privacy for the [Jar Launcher](https://stackoverflow.com/a/66762230) or Terminal.app / iTerm.app.
- Now, you should be able to simply double-click the file to start the program.
- If that does not work, you may need to type `java -jar JARFILE.jar` into the terminal to run it.

**Linux**
- `cd` to the download directory and type in `chmod +x JARFILE.jar`.
- Depending on your specific system, you should be able to double-click the file to start the program.
- If that does not work, use `java -jar JARFILE.jar` to run it.

## File Search
In the "File Search" tab, you can search for files using case-insensitive SQLite LIKE syntax.
It supports two wildcards: `%` and `_`.
- `%` matches any sequence of zero or more characters.
- `_` matches any single character.
- `\ ` is used as the escape character.

Here are a few examples:<br>

|                                    | Domain           | Relative Path                     |
|------------------------------------|------------------|-----------------------------------|
| Videos in the camera roll          | CameraRollDomain | %.mov                             |
| Files under the DCIM directory     | CameraRollDomain | Media/DCIM/%                      |
| All .sqlite files                  | %                | %.sqlite                          |
| .db databases in the home domain   | HomeDomain       | %.db                              |
| All WhatsApp files                 | %whatsapp%       | %                                 |
| App documents on iCloud            | HomeDomain       | Library/Mobile Documents/iCloud~% |
| All files (can take a bit of time) | %                | %                                 |

After you clicked on the `Search` button, you can also sort by clicking on a column name.

To find the largest files, type in a query, click on `Search` and then twice on `Size`.

With the `Export matching` button on the bottom right, you can export all files that match your query to a directory you choose.

By right-clicking on a file row, you can open, extract, replace or delete a single file.
This works the same as in the hierarchical "Files" tab.
If it is a symbolic link, you can show the target location.


## Privacy

For me, this was a matter of course, but it was pointed out that I should clarify it anyway.
I do not collect any personal data. In fact, the program does not even use an internet connection at this time.
If that should change at some point in the future, I will update this notice.

## Credits

I started looking into this after I saw 
[this brilliant answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/13793043/8868841) 
on StackOverflow by [andrewdotn](https://stackoverflow.com/users/14558/andrewdotn) 
to a question that has already been viewed more than 220.000 times. It 
explains in detail how iOS backups are structured and how they are 
encrypted, even providing a working code example.

So a huge thanks to him,

his sources
[iPhone Data Protection in Depth](https://conference.hitb.org/hitbsecconf2011ams/materials/D2T2),
iOS Hacker's Handbook, 
[a GitHub comment](https://github.com/horrorho/InflatableDonkey/issues/41#issuecomment-261927890),
the [iphone-dataprotection](https://code.google.com/archive/p/iphone-dataprotection/) project
and the Apple iOS Security Guide for iOS 11 (in the [Web Archive](http://web.archive.org/web/20180615172056/https://www.apple.com/business/docs/iOS_Security_Guide.pdf))

and [Forensic Analysis of iTunes Backups](http://www.farleyforensics.com/2019/04/14/forensic-analysis-of-itunes-backups/) by Jack Farley

Commit message:

Update `org.openjfx` libraries to version 22 + more info on README (#1)
* Add .DS_Store to gitignore

* Update openjfx dependencies from 18 to 22

This fixes runtime issues on MacOS due to permission and newer silicon chips

* Add more information to readme file

README.md, after:

# iTunes Backup Explorer

iTunes Backup Explorer is a graphical open-source tool that can show, extract,
and replace files in iPhone and iPad backups.

It supports both **encrypted** and non-encrypted backups, 
currently from iOS 10.2 onwards.

Most programs that support encrypted backups are either limited trials 
or expensive. There are apparently only very few open-source projects 
that target this issue and none that are also useful for the average user.

![Program screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12913518/164055723-2d234fa8-922f-439d-974c-f9e7e560a438.png)

## Installation

- Open your terminal and type in `java -version`.
- If the command was not found or the version is below **11**, 
download and install Java for your operating system, e.g. from [here](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads).
- Download the jar file of the [latest release](https://github.com/MaxiHuHe04/iTunes-Backup-Explorer/releases/latest) of iTunes Backup Explorer.

**Windows**
- Simply double-click the downloaded file to start the program.
- From the command line: `java -jar JARFILE.jar`.
Replace `JARFILE.jar` with the name of the file you downloaded.

**macOS**
- `cd` to the download directory and type in `chmod +x JARFILE.jar`.
- Now, you should be able to simply double-click the file to start the program.
- If that does not work, you may need to type `java -jar JARFILE.jar` into the terminal to run it.

**If you have permission issues**

When exporting data from the backup files, you might get `Operation not permitted`
 errors on your MacBook. To fix this, go to `System Settings > Privacy & Security > Full Disk Access` and add both `java` binary file and the `jar` file you downloaded.

More detailed information can be checked [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65469536/why-does-a-jar-file-have-no-permissions-to-read-from-disk-when-started-via-doubl/66762230#66762230).

**Linux**
- `cd` to the download directory and type in `chmod +x JARFILE.jar`.
- Depending on your specific system, you should be able to double-click the file to start the program.
- If that does not work, use `java -jar JARFILE.jar` to run it.

## How to build
1. Run `mvn install`
2. Run `mvn clean compile assembly:single`

## File Search
In the "File Search" tab, you can search for files using case-insensitive SQLite LIKE syntax.
It supports two wildcards: `%` and `_`.
- `%` matches any sequence of zero or more characters.
- `_` matches any single character.
- `\ ` is used as the escape character.

Here are a few examples:<br>

|                                    | Domain           | Relative Path                     |
|------------------------------------|------------------|-----------------------------------|
| Videos in the camera roll          | CameraRollDomain | %.mov                             |
| Files under the DCIM directory     | CameraRollDomain | Media/DCIM/%                      |
| All .sqlite files                  | %                | %.sqlite                          |
| .db databases in the home domain   | HomeDomain       | %.db                              |
| All WhatsApp files                 | %whatsapp%       | %                                 |
| App documents on iCloud            | HomeDomain       | Library/Mobile Documents/iCloud~% |
| All files (can take a bit of time) | %                | %                                 |

After you clicked on the `Search` button, you can also sort by clicking on a column name.

To find the largest files, type in a query, click on `Search` and then twice on `Size`.

With the `Export matching` button on the bottom right, you can export all files that match your query to a directory you choose.

By right-clicking on a file row, you can open, extract, replace or delete a single file.
This works the same as in the hierarchical "Files" tab.
If it is a symbolic link, you can show the target location.


## Privacy

For me, this was a matter of course, but it was pointed out that I should clarify it anyway.
I do not collect any personal data. In fact, the program does not even use an internet connection at this time.
If that should change at some point in the future, I will update this notice.

## Credits

I started looking into this after I saw 
[this brilliant answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/13793043/8868841) 
on StackOverflow by [andrewdotn](https://stackoverflow.com/users/14558/andrewdotn) 
to a question that has already been viewed more than 220.000 times. It 
explains in detail how iOS backups are structured and how they are 
encrypted, even providing a working code example.

So a huge thanks to him,

his sources
[iPhone Data Protection in Depth](https://conference.hitb.org/hitbsecconf2011ams/materials/D2T2),
iOS Hacker's Handbook, 
[a GitHub comment](https://github.com/horrorho/InflatableDonkey/issues/41#issuecomment-261927890),
the [iphone-dataprotection](https://code.google.com/archive/p/iphone-dataprotection/) project
and the Apple iOS Security Guide for iOS 11 (in the [Web Archive](http://web.archive.org/web/20180615172056/https://www.apple.com/business/docs/iOS_Security_Guide.pdf))

and [Forensic Analysis of iTunes Backups](http://www.farleyforensics.com/2019/04/14/forensic-analysis-of-itunes-backups/) by Jack Farley
